The CMPL (<Coliop|Coin> Mathematical Programming Language) Package:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CMPL (<Coliop|Coin> Mathematical Programming Language) is a mathematical programming language 
and a system for mathematical programming and optimization of linear optimization problems. 

The CMPL syntax is similar in formulation to the original mathematical model but also 
includes syntactic elements from modern programming languages. CMPL is intended to combine 
the clarity of mathematical models with the flexibility of programming languages. 

CMPL executes the COIN-OR OSSolverService, GLPK, Gurobi and SCIP directly to solve the generated model 
instance. Since it is also possible to transform the mathematical problem into MPS, 
Free-MPS or OSiL files, alternative solvers can be used. 

CMPL is an open source project licensed under GPL. It is written in C++ and is available 
for most of the relevant operating systems (Windows, OS X and Linux). 
CMPL is a COIN-OR project initiated by the Technical University of Applied Sciences Wildau 
and the Institute for Operations Research and Business Management at the Martin Luther 
University Halle-Wittenberg.

The CMPL distribution contains Coliop which is an (simple) IDE (Integrated Development Environment) 
for CMPL. Coliop is a project of the Technical University of Applied Sciences Wildau and the 
Institute for Operations Research and Business Management at the Martin Luther University.
Coliop is an open source project licensed under GPL. It is written in Java and is as an integral 
part of the CMPL distribution available for most of the relevant operating systems. 

For further information please visit the CMPL website (www.coliop.org). 

DOCUMENTATION:
See the doc subdirectory for documenation. This subdirectory contains a 
User's Manual in pdf format. See also:
 	
	http://www.coliop.org
	https://projects.coin-or.org/Cmpl


INSTALLATION
See the INSTALL file in the root directory.


EXECUTE CMPL and Coliop
CMPL -> Please start the terminal und execute CMPL with the command cmpl <problemname>cmpl.
Coliop -> Double click the Application coliop in /Applications/Cmpl/




 
